Title: Ubuntu Release Sprint: a proposal to improve Ubuntu development
Date: 2012-05-12 22:47
Author: admin
Category: Ubuntu (EN)
Slug: ubuntu-release-sprint-a-proposal-to-improve-ubuntu-development
Status: published

Yesterday, during the final UDS party, I had an idea to improve Ubuntu
development, but I didn't know if it could be a good idea or a stupid
one, so I talked to **Daniel Holbach** and **David Planella** about it
and they were happy to hear about it and Daniel told me to talk about
this directly to Mark (and I did it).

Let's explain the basic idea. From an UDS and the next one, it would be
useful to have a development sprint where people can talk about assigned
UDS blueprints, at which point they are on their tasks, if they have any
problems and if they will finish them within the next UDS. Of course
Canonical cannot organize another meeting, it would be very expensive,
so the idea is: why don't we use Google Hangout to organize the sprint?
I has a limit of 10 people, I know, but we could select (for example) 5
from the community and 5 from Canonical. There would be parallel meeting
and tracks, we would use the same blueprints used during the last UDS
and we would add further notes. The attendees would be able to listen
and watch the stream and make questions through the available chat.

I don't want to write more details here because I don't think it's the
right place (and probably it's not the moment to write a similar blog
post, since I'm still in th SFO Airport), my idea is to create a wiki
page to explain all the details, so everyone would be able to add more
ideas and see if it's doable or not.

So, what do you think about? I think we should try, it doesn't cost
anything except some hours in the week we'll organize it. I wait for
your comments then.
