Title: UDS happening online only: pros and cons
Date: 2013-03-05 01:09
Author: admin
Category: Ubuntu (EN), UDS
Tags: Canonical, community, Linux, meeting, Ubuntu, UDS
Slug: uds-happening-online-only-pros-and-cons
Status: published

When last week [Canonical
announced](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/02/26/ubuntu-developer-summits-now-online-and-every-three-months/)
the usual UDS was not going to happen I was a bit shocked and
disappointed: starting from the next UDS (that is going to happen
tomorrow!) the event will be **online only** and **every 3 months**.
During these days I've been thinking a lot about this move and I will
tell you what are the pros and cons, in my opinion, followed by some
final thoughts.

Pros
----

Having 4 UDS every year, instead of 2, is surely a better thing. I'm a
big fan of Scrum methodology, so I think that **iterating more often is
better** than iterating less. If there are any mistakes you can correct
them and iterating again before releasing the final product.

Potentially **more people can partecipate** to the event (even the
opposite is true and I will explain why). People won't need to move from
home, travel, pay any expense etc... they just need a computer and a
good Internet connection.

It's **cheaper for everyone**: I can just imagine how expensive could be
for Canonical to organize a similar event. Booking a big hotel, paying
travel and expenses to near one houndred of community people. People who
didn't get any sponsorization had to pay all the travel expenses to
attend the event.

Cons
----

Potentially **less people can partecipate** to the event. Yes, like I
said before even this sentence is true and I will explain why. First of
all, using Google+ there are at least three countries that will be cut
out: **China**, **Thailand** and **Vietnam**. Google+ is not available
in those countries.

Are you sure that special people will be able to follow the event? For
example **blind people** won't be able to chat or to ask question in the
chat.

**Only 10 people** will be able to talk. In normal UDS sessions more
people could raise the hand and ask a question or interact with the
track leaders. Who will choose the 10 people with audio+video streaming
rights?

We will **completly miss the social aspect** of the UDS. If you think
this was only a secondary part, please go on. I felt more committed to
work and collaborate with people I met in person than with someone I've
never met before.

Announcing an event, even if online, just **one week before** it
happens. Really? Some people had already taken vacation from work,
booked flights etc... not counting many people that can't take 2 days
off from work just with 1 week notice period. It's also almost
impossible that community members have the time to schedule a blueprint
and be able to discuss about a subject.

Final thoughts
--------------

From a **cutting costs** point of view I really can't say anything.
Organizing UDS was surely very expensive for Canonical and nobody can
blame them if they decided to spend those money in a different way.

What really concerns me: is UDS still useful? My opinion is that at
least since latest 2 or 3 UDS the presence of the Community was not so
relevant, because I had **the clear sensation that the most important
decisions were made by Canonical before the UDS** and then there was
just some details tuning. Another proof of my thoughts is the today
announcement: **despite the fact that I 100% agree with Unity switching
to Qt/QML** (I already proposed this 2 years ago during Budapest UDS,
but nobody listened to me) **I completly disagree with the way the
decision was made**: not a single involvement or discussion with the
community.

I would apreaciate **more openness and honesty** from Canonical. Do you
want to take all the decisions? That's fine, but at least state it
clearly.
