Title: Questions/Answers about Nokia N900 and Discounted Device Program
Date: 2009-11-12 15:05
Author: admin
Category: Maemo (EN)
Tags: DDP, discount, maemo, N900, nokia
Slug: questionsanswers-about-nokia-n900-and-discounted-device-program
Status: published

Being one of the developers who received the discount to buy a N900,
during these days I contacted the DDP customer care to have more
informations and details. I'll publish here both my original question
and the official reply.

**1) The price of N900 is 250€ and I've read of people who paid it this
price. Anyway here you say that the VAT is not included:  
<https://pro.forum.nokia.com/site/global/tech_resources/discounted_devices/l_ddp.jsp>  
so it should costs 300€ not 250€, right?**

The VAT applies only for Finnish developers, for the others the price is
the price they see in the eStore, no VAT is added to that.

*So, all non-finnish european people, will pay **250€** for the N900.*

**2) How much time can I wait before ordering it? In this moment I'm in
Valencia (Spain) and I won't come back to Italy before Christmas. I'd
like the order to be shipped to my home in Italy (I registered as
italian user and I want italian keyboard layout), but I'd like to wait
to order it, because since there's no warranty and I need to tell you
about any problem within a week, if I order it now I will be able to
check it only at the end of december when I'll come back to Italy.**

I guess this should not be a problem.

*This part is not confirmed yet, since Quim told us to hurry up to buy
it.*

<strong>3) How many devices can I buy at that price? Here you say I can
buy two:  
<https://pro.forum.nokia.com/site/global/tech_resources/discounted_devices/l_ddp.jsp>  
but here you say I can buy one:
<https://pro.forum.nokia.com/showProduct.do?product_id=5096>

I don't want two devices, but another friend of mine, who help me in a
project for the Maemo Community, would like to be able to buy one for
the same price (he wasn't able to get the discount because his karma is
still low).</strong>

As far as I know, you can only purchase 1x device per person, regarding
MAEMO N900.

**4) Where can we find the new firmware? In the FAQ you say: DDP does
not flash devices. It's ok, I can do it, but there's no public firmware
for N900 at the moment.**

To update N900, can possibly be using NSU. Nokia software updater.

**5) Is it possible to have a device with localized keyboard (for
example italian one) ?**

All N900 will have EURO variant, Italian language is one option.

**Note:** even these replies come from the official customer care, I
don't assume any responsability if they shouldn't be all exact. If you
have any doubt, please contact them directly at
**[DDP.program@nokia.com]{}**
