Title: MeeGo Conference 2010 in Dublin
Date: 2010-11-25 23:56
Author: admin
Category: Maemo (EN), MeeGo
Slug: meego-conference-2010-in-dublin
Status: draft

Almost one week has passed since MeeGo Conference. This year the
location was set in the nice city of **Dublin**. At the beginning, when
we started organizing the event, no more than 600 people were expected,
but at the end we had someting like **1000 people attending** the event.
Even this time I has the possibility to meet old friends and people I
usually talk to using mailing list or IRC. We had 2 days organized by
the community and 3 days organized by Nokia and Intel.

Early Bird Events
-----------------

After I attended the Barcelona UX Weekend last year, I tried to propose
something similar for this year and I started organizing the Early Bird
Events with **Thomas Perl**. In few days other people (a particular
thank to **Dave Neary**) joined the idea and at the end we had almost
100 people registered and attending the event. What are Early Bird
Events? Just like the name can suggest you, these are events organized
before the main event and all the session are not in the same format of
a normal conference. For example we had 3 hours **tutorials** and 3
hours **workshops** where people, divided in small groups could hack a
particular project or learn something specific about a development
technology. I mainly followed and coordinated the workshops and
personally I really enjoyed it! I was able to work with QtQuick and QML
working with experts of these techologies (thanks **Kevin Ottens** and
**Ville Vainio** for helping me a lot).

We didn't have only tech stuff during these two days: we had a bridge
building contest, a GPS-based treasure hunt and we played **Werefolf**
almost all nights! This was really amazing because during these games
you have the possibility to know better the other members of the
community.

We're trying to get some feedback at the moment, to see if we can
improve these sessions for next time (infact we strongly hope to be able
to repeat the experience during the next MeeGo Conference in San
Francisco). If you have any idea about how we could improve early bird
events, please contact me, Thomas or write in the **meego-community**
mailing list.

The Conference
--------------

I didn't follow many talks this year, for many reasons. Since you could
follow them later watching the recorded video I did prefer to talk with
people and discuss with other developers. The few talks I followed were
quite boring :( always the same "bla bla bla...", nothing new (at least
for people who follow Maemo/MeeGo every day and no announcement about
products. I think that for the next time we should make more interactive
tracks so interested developers can learn something useful and can use
that knowledge to improve their existing application or create something
new.

Anyway the venue was really impressive. Nokia and Intel rented the whole
Aviva Stadium in Dublin for 3 days. There was a lot of space where
people could stay to hack existing applications or to talk with other
developers. Breakfast and lunch offered were quite good and tasty!
